Okay, so let's go ahead and
create our first app.
So you need a relatively
recent version of RStudio or
I think you should have a relatively
recent version of RStudio
just because of some
things like the filing.
So I think probably the easiest
way to start is Alt+F or File,
and then New File, and
then Shiny Web App, okay?
So when you click that, it brings up
a thing, name it whatever you want, so
you could name it myApp or
something like that.
And then you can choose whether to have
the files in a single file which we did
not talk about or in two files.
A ui.R and a server.R file,
which we did talk, and we will talk about.
I'm going to recommend doing it this way,
just because I always like to have,
I'd rather have many small files than one
big file with lots of functions in it.
So I always tend to work that way,
but also note that it's not
the files that it needs,
it's not ui.R and server.R that it needs.
It's the specific named
functions in the ur.R and
server.R files that it actually needs.
And you'll see those in a second.
I'm not going to create this
because I've already done it.
So when it creates it,
it creates the directory and
then it creates the two files.
You can see here's my ur.R and server.R.
No I took the Shiny pre-populated ui.R and
server.R files and then just pasted in
the versions from the lecture notes, okay?
So the key thing in the ui.r is you
need to have this ShinyUI function,
well you need to have library(shiny), but
you need to have this ShinyUI function,
that's going to control
the user interface, okay?
And then in the server.R you need
something called shinyServer.
In this case our server is not
going to do anything, okay?
Now let's look at the shinyUI function
a little bit In a little bit more detail.
Let's put a little space right there.
Okay, so we have fluid page,
which just describes the page
type that we're going to use
to create our user interface.
So this is kind of a default and
I would just suggest that you use it
until you learn a little bit more.
So titlePanel,
you'll see where this comes up.
And it's going to say Data science FTW!.
So this is just going to set
one of the GUI elements, and
in this case just a title.
And then by default in the fluidPage
it's got a main panel and a side panel.
So here we're going to give
it the sidebar layout.
Okay, so it's just saying what's
going to occur in the sidebar.
So the sidebarPanel is going to tell us
what's going to occur in the sidebar.
And h3, so h3 is going to give
you the html third level index.
So if you've learned a little bit of html,
just h3 is just going to
be smaller text than h2, which is just
going to be smaller text than h1.
So it's the heading level.
So third level heading.
And it's just going to say slidebar Text
and this is where the slidebar goes.
So and main panel is just
going to be that center panel and
we're also going to do that in h3 and
it's going to say main panel text, okay.
So sidebar layout is just going to say in
my fluid page I'm going to have a sidebar
type layout with a part on the left that's
going to give us navigation and things
like that and a main panel on the right,
that's going to have the main content.
Okay, and so
just keep track of these three phrases,
titlePanel("Data science FTW!), sidebar,
Sidebar Text Main panel, main panel text,
and you'll see where it puts them all.
So, there's two ways to run it.
The easiest way, if you have
a relatively recent version of RStudio,
you can just click run app.
And I want to save them.
I should have clicked
always save before build.
And there you go, there you see
your elements, Data science FTW!
In the title, this is in the sidebar and
this is in the main panel, okay?
So those are our three elements in our
fluid page with the sidebar layout.
Let me just show you
the other way to run it.
We gotta switch to the directory
where our ui.R and server.R are at.
So you can just do Alt + S + W + Return.
Okay, so that's Alt + S + W + Return,
or click on Session,
click on Set Working Directory and
click on To Source File Location, okay?
And then you just type runApp().
There you go.
Okay?
When you type in runApp, you can put
in here the path to the app, okay?
So, if you'd rather do it that way,
you can put in the path to the app, and
then you don't even have
to be in the directory.
Notice it's running it in RStudio.
This is RStudio bringing up the HTML page.
Let me show you one other thing.
So here it is running,
but if you look down here,
it says listening on and it gives a URL.
So basically what it's doing,
Shiny is just creating a little
web server on your computer and
that web page is just RStudio's
browser accessing that web server.
So when you run and debug things locally.
It's just going to create a little
web server for you running locally.
And that RStudio is going
to be able to access.
And at some point we want to push it up
in to the Internet so that it's running
on a public web server so that anyone can
access it, not just you on your computer.
But this would also show you how
the lowest and kind of easiest form of
delivering a Shiny app to another RStudio
user is to just give them the ur.R,
server.r functions and all the other
functions that they need to run it.
Just give it to them and
they can run it just like you can, but
that's not what we want in the long run.
We want it up and running on a webpage.
So we've done the first step and
let's keep moving and
see if we can populate and
make our app a little bit more useful.